India is home to 200 million Muslims.
Under Prime Minister Narendra Modi, they have faced mounting threats to their status in the majority-Hindu country.
And on Wednesday, they were walloped by a new worrisome development: The upper house of India’s Parliament passed the Citizenship Amendment Bill (CAB).
The legislation turns religion into a means of deciding whom to treat as an illegal immigrant — and whom to fast-track for citizenship.
The bill is being sent to President Ram Nath Kovind for his approval (he will almost certainly sign it), and then it will become law.
At first glance, the bill may seem like a laudable effort to protect persecuted minorities.
It says Hindus, Sikhs, Buddhists, Jains, Parsis, and Christians who came to India from Afghanistan, Bangladesh, and Pakistan won’t be treated as illegal.
They’ll have a clear path to citizenship.
But one major group has been left out: Muslims.
That’s no coincidence.
The CAB is closely linked with another contentious document: India’s National Register of Citizens (NRC).
That citizenship list is part of the government’s effort to identify and weed out people it claims are illegal immigrants in the northeastern state of Assam.
India says many Muslims whose families originally came from neighboring Bangladesh are not rightful citizens, even though they’ve lived in Assam for decades.
When the NRC was published in August, around 2 million people — many of them Muslims, some of them Hindus — found that their names were not on it.
They were told they had a limited time in which to prove that they are, in fact, citizens.
Otherwise, they can be rounded up into massive new detention camps and, ultimately, deported.
Police in northeast India fired tear gas into protesters on Wednesday, as clashes escalated over a controversial citizenship bill passed by parliament.
The legislation, which the Indian president is expected to sign this week, would fast track citizenship for scores of immigrants living in the country — but not Muslims.
On Twitter, Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi celebrated passage of the Citizenship Amendment Bill, which would create a citizenship pathway based on religion.
Immigrants who came to the country from Afghanistan, Pakistan or Bangladesh before 2015 and who belong to one of South Asia's major faiths, would be eligible.
Islam is not included. "
A landmark day for India and our nation's ethos of compassion and brotherhood," Modi wrote. "
This Bill will alleviate the suffering of many who faced persecution for years."
Modi and his nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party have made the legislation a top priority. "
We have to distinguish between the infiltrators and genuine persecuted refugees," said Sudhanshu Trivedi, a spokesman for the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party. "
This is the right time for India to assert its security concerns, because we are living with neighbors which are the biggest security threats in the entire world."
At least three people have been killed in protests against a new citizenship law in India that will pave the way for illegal immigrants from Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Pakistan to become citizens — unless they are Muslim.
The protests escalated dramatically after India's parliament approved the changes to the country's citizenship laws late on Wednesday.
Opponents deride the new law as racist and even illegal under India's secular constitution.
The new law will make Indian citizenship available to illegal immigrants of six religions other than Islam, who fled persecution in those neighboring Muslim-majority nations and took refuge in India before 2015.
The deeply controversial Citizenship Amendment Bill (CAB) was passed by the upper house of India's parliament Wednesday night by 125 to 105 votes.
The lower house approved it on Monday, and India's president, a political ally of Prime Minister Narendra Modi whose party pushed the legislation, was expected to officially sign it into law later Thursday.
The protests first broke out on Wednesday, after the controversial bill was passed by the upper house of India’s Parliament, and quickly turned violent.
Protesters set two train stations on fire, clashed with security forces, blocked national highways, burned vehicles and attacked the home of the highest-ranking government official in Guwahati, the capital of Assam.
The government’s show of force only seemed to enrage protesters further, with larger numbers of demonstrators gathering on Thursday and clashing with security forces.
India's parliament has passed a bill that would give Indian citizenship to immigrants from three neighboring countries -- but not if they are Muslim.
The controversial Citizenship Amendment Bill (CAB) will fast-track citizenship for religious minorities, including Hindus, Sikhs, Buddhists, Jains, Parsis and Christians, from Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Pakistan.
Opposition parties say the bill is unconstitutional as it bases citizenship on a person's religion and would further marginalize India's 200-million strong Muslim community.
The government, ruled by the Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), said the bill seeks to protect religious minorities who fled persecution in their home countries.
It cleared the Rajya Sabha, India's upper house of parliament where the BJP lacks a clear majority, on Wednesday with 125 votes in favor and 105 against. "
I think it is, without exaggeration, probably the most dangerous piece of legislation that we've had because it amounts to truly destroying the very character of the Indian state and the constitution," Harsh Mander, an Indian human rights activist and author, told CNN.
Mander said the very nature of the Indian constitution is that it is based on secular values. "
Central to the idea was that your religious identity would be irrelevant to your belonging, and it's that which is being turned on its head.
It's extremely worrying," he said.
Modi celebrated the bill's passing on Twitter. "
A landmark day for India and our nation's ethos of compassion and brotherhood!"
he wrote. "
This bill will alleviate the suffering of many who faced persecution for years."
Tens of thousands of protesters rioted in three states across India’s northeast, some defying a government curfew and military deployment to demonstrate against the passage of the contentious Citizenship Amendment Bill, which will grant citizenship to thousands of migrants on religious grounds.
By Thursday night, the government had shut down the internet, deployed hundreds of troops, imposed a curfew in Assam state and banned groups of more than four people from assembling in neighboring Meghalaya state.
The police shot and killed two protesters in Assam whom they accused of defying the curfew, and arrested dozens of others there, The Associated Press reported.
Protesters are angry that the bill will grant citizenship to thousands of Hindu, Christian, Jain, Buddhist and Sikh migrants from some neighboring countries where New Delhi says they are religiously persecuted.
Demonstrators say this will flood their hometowns with unwanted foreigners.
The bill will make it harder for Muslim migrants to attain Indian citizenship, although many Muslims are also discriminated against in neighboring countries.
Critics fear the bill will be used to harass Indian Muslims by forcing them to pass a citizenship test and prove their family’s lineage in the country, while giving a blanket pass to people of most other religions.
But government officials say the bill is a humanitarian effort to provide shelter to religiously persecuted minorities.
The bill is expected to be signed into law in the coming days.
