I bet majority of you saw this picture and assumed “oh goody…here’s a Messi fanboy with an essay on how GOATy Messi is” . Well fuck No.
And FUCK NO HE ISN'T.
And this is from a guy who thinks Barca is a phenomenal team.
Here's what I think. I think if you're going to be the goat, no aspect of your game player should be open to criticism.
Now here are messi's good points.
He's pretty much the best in history in this aspect. Maybe with only maradona and Man United Cristiano coming close(Yh yh to those of you who can't stand the thought of Cristiano Ronaldo and dribbling being used in the same sentence well then, you can die already. Cus at Man Utd, he was a dribbling maniac. To the extreme annoyance of Sir Alex Ferguson and all his team mates such is Ruud and Rio)
Unparalleled. He stands alone here.
Usually, people confuse this with passing. But it's not. Every world class player is an excellent passer of equal measure. But Messi sees openings that usually end up in either an assist, a pre-assist or at the very least a scoring opportunity/chance. That's it. And that's maniacal

I don't need to put anything here. He's numero uno here too.
But here's the thing. If you want to be in the goat debate, you've got to be unquestionable in every aspect of your gameplay. And I mean “every”. From individuality to team play to skills to trophies to statistics to magic.
And don't let any fool tell you “it's not about statistics”…they're bloody idiots.
Whilst you're at it, don't let any other fool tell you “it's not about magic either”…
And please oh please don't let anyone tell you it's not about “trophies”… I'm done there.
So yh.
When it comes to players in the goat discussion who fit my definition up there(individuality+team play+skills+trophies+statistics+magic), there's only 3 players who fit.

1.Pele

2.Cristiano Ronaldo

3.Lionel Messi

These 3 have most of the requirements up there. Most.

Individuality

(physicality)

Pele-average

I never really saw the guy…I hear the previous generation speak of him as though he were a god. But from the little I seen, nah. He was average

Cristiano-monster

He's the most hardworking guy there's ever been. Nuff said

Messi-average

Similar to Pele actually. Now don't get me wrong. He's hardworking. But there's nufn to show for it iykwim. Cus physicality is just that. Physicality.

(INDIVIDUAL GAME PLAY)

I THINK everyone agrees that Cr7 wins in this category. Lol. I don't even think it's worth a debate. Cr7 and Messi both have a beautiful collection of solo goals that are just stunning. But what makes cr7 the winner here is the fact that he can score from anywhere. He can just give the rest of his team the middle finger and just be shooting off on his own. Now don't get me wrong. He misses a lot of the time. But he also gets the goal in more than the rest. He's goat more freekick goals than these guys. More longshots. Etc Pele and Messi come in close second though

Team play

PELE- he was good. He had a lot of good players both at Santos and Brazil who understood him perfectly. So yh.

Messi-hes excellent. But I doubt anyone would disagree that he wins here. I mean sure. He fails with country. But when he shines,he shines. It is safe to say he's only able to shine with club though. Moving along.

Cr7– here's where it gets tricky. The stats show he's a better playmaker than Messi and iniesta. And a lot of his games, he's actually been selfless. He's had to switch it up between country-club and England and Spain and Italy and Country. Given that state of mind, it's understandable that he only depends on himself to lift the team lol. He's been to 3 different clubs and still holds almost all the records for greatest player in EUROPE(UCL and EUROS)

Winner- Messi….forget the huge cr7 essay. Messi wins here. Cr7 right after though.

SKILLS

PELE- he was good. Again I didn't really see him play. What dyu want from me?

Cristiano-this guy has every trick in the book. Every. That's enough.

Messi-dribbling…check. That's it actually. That's it. Don't lie. U know that's it.

Winner-Cristiano.

TROPHIES

Pele-he's won 3 WCs. But only 1 of which he was instrumental in winning.Hes even won a parody version of a ballon dor apparently. Lol. JK. But he has.

Cristiano- racking up an impressive trophycase of collective awards across europe.lol. need I say more? He's winning everything everywhere. And he's also leading on the individual front as well. He's the most decorated overall.

Messi- has the most trophies. Nuff said

Winner-draw

STATISTICS

Pele- dominates in the goal tally area…for now. Cus cr7 and Messi are drawing ever so close. In a year's time, they'll surpass him for sure.

Cristiano- he dominates in overall league goals. Overall club goals. Overall international goals. Overall champions league goals. Overall club world cup goals. Overall country goals. Overall Euros goals. And leads Messi in the career goals race. His assists are also a lot. In this generation, he's right behind Messi and in front of the likes of iniesta, Modric, zidane and Lord Xavi. Oh and he holds all the records in UCL.

Messi-Hold every single record in La Liga. Overall country goals. Overall goal to game ratio.

Overall Winner By Analysis?


He's the leading goal scorer of this generation and statiscally two seasons away from breaking Pele's official career goals record.Hes the current Champions League top scorer and top assister. Current Euros historical top scorer and top assister. Leading goal scorer in Europe's top 5 leagues. Leading goalscorer for clubs. Leading Real Madrid goal scorer. Leading Portugal goal scorer. Leading Club world cup top scorer. Has won 5 champions Leagues. Has won 4 golden boots. Has won 5 ballon dors. 3 UEFA player of the year. 4 Uefa forward of the year. 2 FIFA the best. One puskas,. Etc. It's virtually limitless.And he's also the overall big game winner. He steps up on every big occasion.

Messi isn't too far behind in terms of statistics and decorations either. We all know it's close. I really hope Messi fans don't come in here with the whole “Messi has better “goal-to-game ratio” counter argument. I gave that to Messi but truthfully that's crap for two reasons;

1.Its been 10 years now. It's painfully obvious that that argument is obsolete cus 10 ago, that was the case. 10 years down the line, that's still the chants? Come the fuck on. Enough. Messi will always have better goal ratio and cr7, more goals. That's it.

2.Here’s my analogy. If I had to employ an assassin. And one of them had on his resume, “better bullet- confirmed kill ratio” and the other had “ more confirmed kills..” You think I'll be like “oh this dude saves me more bullets”. Fuck no. Lol

That being said, we all still know Retirement solidifies your GOAT status better than anything. So obviously, Pele is still the goat. I mean sure he's overrated. And Messi and Cristiano will definitely surpass him upon retirment. But he's still the goat.nuff said.


So that's my two cents.

P.S Notable mentions include Bergkamp and zidane as well as maradona, puskas, di stefano, cryuff, George best, de Lima and ronaldinho.

However they didn't make my list cus magic alone or trophy cases alone wasn't enough. They are of course in the goat category though. Lol. Ciao

P.S please check awt my videos and subscribe. I promise you won't regret it. Thanks
