If we did, there'd be no starvation in the world.''
In ``Blindness,'' his most recent work to be translated into English, a nameless man in a nameless country suddenly goes blind, and the affliction quickly spreads through the country _ grim tale of social collapse.
Those include widening blood vessels, helping to regulate blood pressure, initiating erections, battling infections, preventing formation of blood clots and acting as a signal molecule in the nervous system.
Its citation said that the research had led to new treatments for treating heart and lung diseases, shock and impotence.
Doctors have learned from the prize-winning research that in heart disease, the endothelium, or inner lining of arteries, makes less nitric oxide.
Drugs like nitroglycerine, however, can help replenish stores of nitric oxide.
Then it can shut off muscle contractions in the arteries, thus widening them and reducing blood pressure.
Inhalation of nitric oxide gas has saved the lives of some people with certain lung diseases, particularly infants who have developed dangerously high pulmonary blood pressure.
Nitric oxide plays a harmful role in the collapse of the circulatory system, or shock, resulting from overwhelming microbial infections.
The gas can also induce a type of programmed cell death known as apoptosis.
Scientists are studying nitric oxide's effects on the immune system to stop the growth of cancers.
Nobel dismissed nitroglycerine's benefit in the relief of chest pain.
Because of the research, ``we know today that nitric oxide acts as a signal molecule in the nervous system, as a weapon against infections and as a regulator of blood pressure.''
Understanding how nitric oxide transmits the signals has sparked research on a wide range of new drugs, including those that can be used in the treatment of heart problems, artherosclerosis, shock and impotence.
The citation said ``it was a senation that the simple, common air pollutant (nitric oxide), which is formed when nitrogen burns ... could exert important functions in the organism. ''
Because of the research, ``we know today that nitric oxide acts as a signal molecule in the nervous system, as a weapon against infections and as a regulator of blood pressure.''
