Years of food shortages have stunted the growth of millions of North Korean children, with two-thirds of children under age seven suffering malnourishment, U.N. experts said Wednesday.
A survey carried out in September and October also showed that 16 percent of children in North Korea are acutely malnourished, with a body weight too low for their height.
The most alarming findings were for toddlers aged one to two, 30 percent of whom were acutely malnourished.
At that age, ``malnutrition can permanently impair physical and intellectual growth,'' said Judy Cheng-Hopkins, WFP director for the region.
Children in North Korea's three largest cities _ Pyongyang, Wonsan and Nampo _ were better off than their counterparts elsewhere, with 11 percent acutely malnourished.
Though North Korea is suffering from a simple lack of food, a faltering economy in Cambodia combined with weak health care and education is causing similar levels of malnutrition in children, said Ken Davies, the WFP's country director.
The problem is that people are too poor to access it.
According to a recent WFP survey, 49 percent of Cambodian children under age 5 are stunted by lack of food and 20 percent suffer from acute malnutrition.
By comparison, a similar survey of North Korean children under 7 found that 65 percent are stunted and 16 percent suffer from acute malnutrition.
The majority of Cambodian farmers are not producing enough to keep their families fed and are being increasingly saddled with debts incurred when they run out of reserves before harvest, Davies said.
Poor sanitation, lack of health care and ignorance of modern child rearing _ problems left mostly unaddressed by under-funded health and education sectors in Cambodia _ have exacerbated the food security problem, Davies said.
More than five years of severe food shortages and a near-total breakdown in the public health system have led to devastating malnutrition in North Korea and probably left an entire generation of children physically and mentally impaired, a new study by international aid groups has found.
Among other shocking findings, researchers from the World Food Program, Unicef and the European Union found that, because of long-term food shortages, a staggering 62 percent of children under 7 years old suffer from stunted growth.
They have discovered that, despite a huge international food aid program over the past three years, severe malnutrition is widespread among toddlers at crucial stages of brain development, suggesting that this generation's physical and mental abilities will not develop normally and that the losses can never be recovered.
Even basic water purification systems stand idle for lack of essential ingredients like chlorine, Red Cross workers say, leaving vast numbers of people with such severe diarrhea that they are unable to absorb completely what little food they have.
And while the researchers and aid workers on the ground in North Korea have not seen evidence of cannibalism or starving children dying by the roadside _ descriptions that have surfaced in the more lurid refugee reports _ what they did find was in many ways equally disturbing: A population withering after nearly a decade of chronic hunger, people so weakened by malnutrition that colds and stomach flus quickly turn lethal, the future of a generation irretrievably lost.
They found that 62 percent of children under 7 had stunted growth, a symptom of long-term malnutrition.
Thirty percent of 1-year-olds suffered from moderate to severe malnutrition.
This means a high likelihood of impaired mental and physical development, because the nervous system matures dramatically during this essential first year.
The researchers said that available scientific data suggest that 10 years ago, malnutrition was rare in North Korea.
Virtually all the children under 7 who are malnourished also have diarrhea, he said.
None of the aid groups has been able to study the issue of hunger-related deaths, and the North Koreans have not released relevant figures, although most experts agree that probably more than one million and perhaps as many as three million have died prematurely since the food shortages began.
Still, there are some disturbing clues: In one limited study conducted by the World Food Program and other groups last year on 4,000 children hand-picked by the government, 10 percent had a parent who was dead.
In addition to finding that 62 percent of children had stunted growth, the teams found that about 16 percent of children were suffering from acute malnutrition and were underweight for their height, a sign that they were severely underfed at the time of the study.
After three years of food donations, many foreign aid workers in the country have remarked that children in nurseries and kindergartens are looking better _ but that their older siblings are failing.
``We have reason to believe that many people are suffering and that the elderly are a neglected age group that is just getting weaker and weaker,'' Swedlund said.
And, in any case, the hospitals lack the food and proper nutritional supplements.
With few other options, vast numbers of North Koreans have resorted to eating ``substitute food,'' hard cakes and noodles made from a mix of nutritional plants, like soybeans and sweet potatoes, combined with indigestible filler, like cornstalks and straw.
Still, the number of counties open to the workers has increased steadily, and freedom to move about has improved.
Workers from the Red Cross and the World Food Program said they had not observed extreme scenes of people dying of acute starvation and believe that they would have if they were occurring frequently.
And they are still analyzing some tantalizing findings: Boys were twice as likely to suffer from stunted growth as girls, and every child whose mother was dead was malnourished.
``A generation of North Korean children is already scarred for life,'' said Astrid Heiberg, president of the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies, in an interview in Beijing after a trip to North Korea.
Famine-threatened North Korea's harvest will be no better this year than last and could be worse, a senior U.N. aid official said Saturday.
U.S. officials who toured some of the hardest-hit regions of North Korea this summer said 2 million people may have died because of famine.
Ngongi said he saw malnourished children who were said to be 10 or 11 years old, but appeared to be only 4 or 5 years old.
But Ngongi said foreign food aid has saved lives.
North Korea is entering its fourth winter of chronic food shortages with its people malnourished and at risk of dying from normally curable illnesses, senior Red Cross officials said Tuesday.
She and other Red Cross officials saw further ravages of North Korea's slow-motion famine: electricity supplied to only half the capital, Pyongyang, at a time; the elderly looking swollen, a sign of long-term hunger; a generation of children stunted, with 10-year-olds looking like 6-year-olds and 5-year-olds like 2-year-olds.
Heiberg likened the additives to ``cattle food'' and noted that doctors reported a rise in stomach illnesses from the mixtures.
Doctors worry that the respiratory illnesses so common in the winter may ``take a toll'' on the weakened population, she said.
A congressman who visited remote parts of North Korea last week said Saturday that the food and health situation there was desperate and deteriorating, and that millions of North Koreans might have starved to death in the last few years.
The noodles have no nutrition and are indigestible, leaving people holding their aching stomachs, he said.
But in rural areas where foreigners are not often allowed to visit, he added, the overall situation is worse than ever.
Ordinary North Koreans are suffering, in part, because their government's hard-line policies have alienated would-be donors and aid agencies.
North Korea does not release mortality figures or health statistics, but Hall said that the United Nations had gathered and would soon release data indicating that 30 percent of North Korean children under age 2 are acutely malnourished and that 67 percent of all children are physically stunted.
North Korea has said that it will show off the complex only if Washington promises that if the complex is not a nuclear one, it will pay for ``vilifying us and impairing our prestige.''
