``I believe Asia will emerge from this present crisis more prosperous, more stable, more democratic _ thanks in no small measure to Korea's example.''
To risk that kind of cooperation _ and progress with America on other issues _ by stonewalling on the suspected nuclear site is contrary to the North's long-term interests, he said.
``Nothing could ever be put into that hole in the ground, given our defense partnership here, nothing could ever be put in that hole in the ground that would give the North Koreans as much advantage, as much power, as much wealth, as much happiness, as more of those ships going up there full of people from here,'' Clinton said.
``Nothing could ever be put into that hole in the ground, given our defense partnership here, that would give the North Koreans as much advantage, as much power, as much wealth, as much happiness, as more of those ships going up there full of people from here,'' Clinton said.
Clinton said the U.S. economy could tolerate increased imports _ if they are not concentrated in just a few industries, and if the result is that the Asian economies begin to recover.
American intelligence agencies fear that building the complex could be an effort to break out of a four-year-old pact in which North Korea pledged to give up its nuclear-weapons program in exchange for billions of dollars in aid from the United States, South Korea and Japan.
The Clinton administration fears that the construction site may be evidence that North Korea has abandoned a 1994 pledge to the United States to give up its nuclear weapons program in exchange for billions of dollars in aid.
Clinton repeatedly congratulated Kim for his efforts at economic reform, noting that interest rates had fallen here and the currency had stabilized.
A congressman who visited remote parts of North Korea last week said Saturday that the food and health situation there was desperate and deteriorating, and that millions of North Koreans might have starved to death in the last few years.
The noodles have no nutrition and are indigestible, leaving people holding their aching stomachs, he said.
But in rural areas where foreigners are not often allowed to visit, he added, the overall situation is worse than ever.
Ordinary North Koreans are suffering, in part, because their government's hard-line policies have alienated would-be donors and aid agencies.
North Korea does not release mortality figures or health statistics, but Hall said that the United Nations had gathered and would soon release data indicating that 30 percent of North Korean children under age 2 are acutely malnourished and that 67 percent of all children are physically stunted.
North Korea has said that it will show off the complex only if Washington promises that if the complex is not a nuclear one, it will pay for ``vilifying us and impairing our prestige.''
U.S. intelligence agencies fear that by building the complex, North Korea may have decided to abandon a four-year-old agreement with the United States in which North Korea pledged to give up its nuclear weapons program in exchange for billions of dollars in aid.
A South Korean lawmaker said Friday communist North Korea could be producing plutonium and could have more secret underground nuclear facilities than already feared.
``North Korea would be able to make sufficient plutonium to make eight to 10 nuclear weapons every year after that.''
